So let's take a look at these exercises.
Did everybody have a chance to get to
the bottom of the notebook as it were?
I'm seeing some nods.
Okay, great.
And obviously for
folks following along at home,
hope you could spend
whatever time you needed.
So all right?
Let's talk about readability.
Now, this is a very subjective question.
Everyone is gonna have
a different answer for it.
But between these two versions,
the iterative factorial and
the recursive factorial, which one
do people find easier to read and
understand what it's doing
just by looking at the code?
Who thinks the iterative
factorial is easier to read?
I don't see any hands being raised.
I don't see anybody nodding.
I see maybe one hand being raised, okay?
Couple people, okay?
What about the recursive version?
Three, four, okay?
A few more people, find this recursive
version a little bit easier to read.
Would anybody like to share?
And again, this is a totally subjective
question because programming is
pretty subjective in the sense that
style and organization of code.
And how easy it is to work with
a particular style or program paradigm is
something that's gonna vary based on
the programmer based on their background.
Based on the languages that they've worked
in before based on the types of programs
that they've read before.
So who would like to share their
perspective on either of these
functions and what they thought
about the difference in readability.
I think that the iterative
one is very clear
in the sense that it does step by step,
but
the recursive fracture
is more like elegant.
I don't know, it seems to me.
>> Okay, so I heard that the iterative
factorial implementation seems very clear,
because we can read step by step what it's
doing, because again, it's imperative.
So it's all these commands,
these kind of steps,
but that the recursive factorial
seems a bit more elegant.
That's something, that's a word that
you often hear people use when they
are describing recursion or
when they are describing functional code.
We'd love to hear more about what makes
this function look elegant to us.
What does elegant mean to us?
Again, it's a subjective question.
Just maybe you want to
expand a little bit.
>> I think that the fate
that the fact that.
>> It doesn't need to hold on state,
it doesn't need state.
It doesn't need to keep state.
We don't have that product
value changing over time.
>> Because we don't have a state,
we don't have to hold on keeping
that state on your mind.
If you are debugging something
that doesn't have a stated way,
it's way more easier to reason about.
But if you don't understand
recursive equations,
then is very hard to understand.
For someone that is
starting on programming or
if you have a lot of
juniors in your company,
it may get to the point
that it starts to become
hard to maintain this recursive code.
>> Okay, so just to recap the absence
of state in the recursive
factorial function and feels nice or
seems like a positive addition,
but for somebody who doesn't
have a lot of experience with
working with recursive functions.
Or perhaps is really new to programming
and especially, and I think a lot of
introductory programming courses
really take an imperative approach.
So if someone is less experienced
with thinking about solving problems
in a recursive way,
the recursive implementation
might be a little harder to wrap your head
around, a little harder to understand.
I totally agree, and I think again,
this is subjective because for example,
if we have been working with an imperative
programming language like C, or C++.
Or one of these languages that
forces us to do everything in kind
of imperative commands, we might be so
used to thinking in that mode.
That might be like really where our
mindset our paradigm, our worldview,
is that mentally and that might make it
easier to take in that imperative code.
But again, that's why it's so
important to get a lot of practice and
spend a lot of time, kind of wrapping
your head around the functional approach.
Because once you've wrapped your head
around the concepts of recursion,
the concepts of solving problems
by breaking them down recursively,
then that will no longer feel so
strange or so weird.
And then, you'll be able to decide for
yourself whether you want to take
a recursive approach because it let's
say allows you to write a much quicker,
shorter function where there's
less than code to check in.
Less code to worry about or
whether you prefer the imperative style.
Because perhaps, you're working on
a team with lots of people who are more
comfortable with imperative code and
that is what's best for
the maintainability of the project and
the team.
So again, there's no hard and
fast answers here.
It's a question of what works best for
you what works best for your team and
what works best for
the journey that you're trying to take.
Are you trying to bend your mind and
solve problems a different
way than you usually do?
Or are you trying to stick with the same
mental models that you've been using?
So this is what I wanted you all to
think about with, with this exercise.
Again is like really,
it's a very individual thing here, okay?
Now, how about writing these functions?
How did this go?
Were people able to implement both
of these versions, the iterative and
recursive Fibonacci functions?
>> Yes.
>> I see some some folks were great.
And I see someone made a comment about
the recursive implementations being
a little bit closer to how we
were taught in math class.
And yes, I agree, I think for certain
of these problems, especially these
operations like the factorial and
the Fibonacci number calculation.
When you learn in math class, when
a human is explaining to another human,
here's how you do it,
you take the factorial of this number.
And that gives you the number of times
the factorial of the next smaller
number that is the way you might
explain it to another human.
Because when we think
about things like that,
that is us thinking in
a kind of recursive way.
So, that also has a big impact on which
of these will be easier to read and
write, all right?
So there are plenty of
ways stylistically and
syntactically in JavaScript to
implement these two versions.
I have one option here in another in a
kind of a solved version of this notebook,
which you can see by going
at the top of the notebook.
It shows there's a fork
iteration versus recursion.
So if you open that up, and
please let me know if anybody is
having trouble again with finding
anything here on observable.
You'll find a version of the notebook
with some of this code filled out.
And so again, once you've got that
implementation done with the correct
output you should see these little tatas.
Now, I'm trusting you all that you're
forcing yourself to use an imperative
style, an iterative style with a loop, or
forcing yourself to use recursion wiki,
wiki.
We're not programmatically
determining that to do these
little test cells down here.
But here's one way you could have
done the Fibonacci Is a sort of with
a couple of just caveats of this is
by definition, that's the answer.
Zero gives zero and one gives one.
And then, you could use a for
loop to kind of keep changing the values
of counters called previous and
current that allow you to keep tracking
where you are at in the process.
So sort of to remember how far
you've come in the sequence,
and then finally return
the most current value.
Folks might have different solutions for
this that are also iterative and
also perfectly valid.
This is just one way you could do it.
So moving on to the recursive version,
this is where there's probably fewer
ways that you would be able to
solve this in a recursive way.
But again, there's some flexibility here.
Everybody might have
a slightly different version.
But here is one way.
So again,
we start out with those kinds of default,
just by definition these are the first
two values of the Fibonacci sequence.
And by the way, I hope everyone was able
to find that link in the exercise to read
up about the Fibonacci sequence and
what Fibonacci numbers are in case
you haven't encountered them before.
Check out the Wikipedia article.
It's pretty good.
[COUGH] And again, we have some test
cases, so we know when it's working.
So in our recursive version,
we start out the same way as we did
in the iterative one with these two
kind of non-recursive return statements.
Does anybody remember which part of
the recursive function this is called?
>> Base case.
>> Base case, thank you, yes.
So in this case, I have two base cases,
or I have a two part base case.
And again, we need that base case so
that we don't end up getting
into an infinite recursive loop.
And then, I have my recursive
case where I am applying
this recursive Fibonacci
function actually twice.
I'm getting the Fibonacci number 2 before,
and the Fibonacci number 1 before,
so that I can add those together and
get the current Fibonacci number.
And this is probably gonna look quite
similar to how again on the Wikipedia
article it describes what
Fibonacci sequences are,
how it's calculated, or maybe what
you would have learned in math class.
And you will see a lot of overlap
between those kind of problems in
math that are solved by these
kind of recursive operations and
functional programming
examples like this one.
So which one was easier to write?
Same question and again,
again, super subjective, but
who found the imperative
iterative version easier to write?
I see a hand, okay?
What about the recursive version?
I see two hands, three hands, okay?
So again, there's no right answer.
It's a function of a lot of
different things, function.
It's a function of how much time you've
spent writing recursive implementations.
Perhaps, whether or not you looked at
the Wikipedia article which would maybe
nudge you in a functional recursive way.
Or whether maybe you are just starting
out in JavaScript after decades
in an imperative language like C or
something like that.
All those things will affect which
one is easier to read and write.
So again, when people say,
recursive programming or
functional programming is
absolutely the best and
absolutely the most elegant and
the most wonderful to write, to read.
That may be true for them, but
it might not be true for everyone.
So keep that in mind
when listening to folks
about how much they love functional
programming and recursion, even me.